Hello welcome back to the course on databases.
So we've covered quite a lot of topics off already.
We've talked about talking about left joints.
We've talked about right joins in the adjoins FULL OUTER joints and we've even talked about joining
in multiple fields and plus all of that is backed up with the theory tutorials which you had at the
start of the section so you should be getting quite comfortable with the topic of Joines already and
that's why today we're going to move on to a more complex topic.
We're going to actually talk about complex joints.
All right.
So what is a complex join and how the deal of competition.
Well we've already noted that our information is kind of dispersed across the different tables we get
owners information PED's Information Procedures information and the actual history of procedures.
And we've seen that we can connect the Petz table to the procedures history table with an inner join
and we've also seen in a separate trial that we can connect the procedures history table to the procedure
Details table through a LEFT JOIN on multiple fields.
And so now our challenge is to combine all that into one huge joint.
And why would you want to ever do that.
Well let's say for instance you want to find out information about the pets like detailed information
about the pets and the actual costs of procedures performed on those pests on those pets.
So basically you need to connect this table to this table but you can't just do it directly.
You need to go through the procedures history table to connect to that table so or basically or what
you actually need is you want to get this table to the history table but history table doesn't have.
It doesn't have information on the costs that you will get from the details.
So inevitably you're going to have to connect all three.
That's what we're going to do.
So let's get started.
We're going to say select star from pets as a.
And then we get say inner join procedure as history as B.
And we want to join on a Daut pets.
Heidi equals be dot pet ID and you need to be careful because sometimes these fields don't have the
same name sometimes in different tables.
The field here might be called Petz idea and here might be called Pet identifier or something like that.
So you really need to know your database or data sets or you need to just check every time just to make
sure you are typing in the correct column name.
So there we go.
So if we run this you'll see that we are able to join our two tables and the resulting table has 41
rows which means doesn't necessarily mean that 41 pets had procedures performed as we discussed previously
some procedure some pets had several procedures performed like for example there's dog here Bonaparte.
He actually had three procedures performed on him so therefore there's less than 41 pets in here.
But what they're what we can say is that 41 procedures have been performed on pets from our table pets.
OK so that's our first part.
Now we want to add information about the details of these procedures so we want to know the description
of what it what type of vaccination is this or what type of surgery is it.
And also the cost.
So we want to add that information and therefore this is going to turn into a complex join.
So how do we perform complex joins.
How do we add another join onto this existing joint.
Well what you need to think the way you think about it to make things very very simple is just think
of all of this as just one table let's say because in reality it is the result is one table here.
So if you take all of this and you just imagine that it is just a letter X for example so select r from
X gives us this result.
Now we want to add additional information on the right.
So how would we go about that.
Who would say left to join and then would join to our procedures procedures details table.
And then I would say on what you want to join and so on.
So basically you would you would just continue typing like that.
And that's exactly what you should do so let's just cancel all of that.
So just treat this as a individual table and just in your mind and that way it'll be very simple to
operate with complex joins.
And here to just say left join because we are adding information on the right.
We just went out lives join as we start typing procedures details we can call it as I see by the way
these don't have to be called ABC you can call it anything you can call it Zed's you can call it why
you can call at my table three Anything but this is just convenient and it's easy to understand what's
going on so you just increase the numbers the letters as you cycle through the alphabet as you add more
into join.
And then here as we remember from this part we just want to say on.
So we want to do a complete Zoes on Two-Bits.
So we want to join on the procedure type which comes from this table procedures history.
So we're going to say be Daut procedure type equals C Daut procedure type because there's a procedure
type in the details table and we want to say be it's procedure sub code so this column
procedure sub code it calls see Daut procedure are actually just copying from here procedure sub code.
So once you've done that you've got your first join.
This is an inner join.
And it goes all up to here and then you've got an additional join left join over here.
So if you run all of this together you'll see that we've got three tables combined and congratulations
this is your first complex join.
So here you've got the paired ID table or the table pairs table going up to here.
Then you've got the paired ID table going up to here or this is the procedure procedures history table
going up to here.
And then here you've got the procedures up procedures history table goes up to here and then the procedures
details table goes up to here.
So this is going to highlight this one so it's easier for us to see the three separate or one two and
three.
And so let's just recap on how all this came to life.
We have this table and we wanted to get it for our pets.
We wanted to find out which ones of them had procedures done.
And we wanted to find out the prices of those procedures so as we discussed previously in this section
we needed to do an inner join with procedures history table so that we would remove the pads that never
had procedures and would also remove procedures done on pets not from our data assets from other states
in the US and therefore we ended up with this table.
And don't forget that there's duplicate rows here for like as we saw Bonaparte's three times and that's
because some pests had several procedures done or at several different points in time.
And so that's our two table joined.
And then on top of that we wanted to add information about the prices.
So there we go.
That's exactly what we did over here.
So there you go that's how you perform a complex join.
I know it might seem scary at first but with time as you get to practice some more and more.
As long as you think of it in that sense as a join after it's performed like this is a joint.
Just think of it as a separate table and then you just keep adding on it.
It actually becomes very straightforward.
What what exactly we're doing here and how it's all working.
So I hope this tutorial and I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then happy analyzing.